Updated documentation and example data for 2.0 (#638)
griffithlab/pVACtools: docs/pvacseq/output_files.rst

       information parsed from the input files.
   * - ``<sample_name>.tsv_<chunks>`` (multiple)
     - The above file but split into smaller chunks for easier processing with IEDB.
   * - ``<sample_name>.fasta``
     - A fasta file with mutant and wildtype peptide subsequences for all

>        proccessable variant-transcript combinations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       processable variant-transcript combinations.
```

     - ic50 binding affinity of the wildtype epitope. ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.
   * - ``Corresponding Fold Change``
     - ``Corresponding WT Score`` / ``Best MT Score``. ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.
   * - ``Best MT Percentile Method``

>      - Prediction algorithm with the lowest ic50 binding affinity percentile rank for this epitope

Author: ```suggestion
     - Prediction algorithm with the lowest binding affinity percentile rank for this epitope
```

   * - ``Best MT Percentile``

>      - Lowest percentile rank of this epitope's ic50 binding affinity of all prediction algorithms used

Author: ```suggestion
     - Lowest percentile rank of this epitope's ic50 binding affinity of all prediction algorithms used (those that provide percentile output)
```

   * - ``Corresponding WT Percentile``

>      - ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope. ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.

Author: ```suggestion
     - binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope. ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.
```

       ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.
   * - ``Median Fold Change``
     - ``Median WT Score`` / ``Median MT Score``. ``NA`` if there is no ``WT Epitope Seq``.
   * - ``Median MT Percentile``

>      - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used with valid percentile output
```

>      - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used with valid percentile output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms (those that provide percentile output)
```

This is a little confusing - maybe the above? (and on the line after)

   * - ``Median WT Percentile``

>      - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used with valid percentile output
```

>      - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used with valid percentile output

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used (those that provide percentile output)
```

     - For each HLA allele in the run, did the mutation result in an epitope that bound well
       to the HLA allele? (with median mutant binding affinity < 1000).
   * - ``Gene``
     - The Ensembl gene name of the affected gene
   * - ``AA_change``
     - The amino acid change for the mutation
   * - ``Num_Transcript``
     - The number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least
       one well-binding peptide (median mutant binding affinity < 1000).
   * - ``Peptide``
     - The best-binding mutant epitope sequence (lowest median mutant binding
       affinity)
   * - ``Pos``
     - The one-based position of the start of the mutation within the epitope sequence. ``0`` if the
       start of the mutation is before the epitope (as can occur downstream of frameshift mutations)
   * - ``Num_Peptides``
     - The number of unique well-binding peptides for this mutation.
   * - ``ic50_MT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used
   * - ``ic50_WT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.
   * - ``percentile_MT``

>      - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used (those that provide percentile output)
```

>      - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used
```

   * - ``percentile_WT``

>      - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used (those that provide percentile output)
```

>      - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.

Author: ```suggestion
     - Median binding affinity percentile rank of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.
```

.. image:: ../images/output_file_columns.png
    :alt: pVACseq ouput file columns illustration

filtered.tsv.reference_matches Report Columns
---------------------------------------------

This file is only generated when the ``--run-reference-proteome-similarity``
option is chosen.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Column Name
     - Description
   * - ``Chromosome``
     - The chromosome of this variant
   * - ``Start``
     - The start position of this variant in the zero-based, half-open coordinate system
   * - ``Stop``
     - The stop position of this variant in the zero-based, half-open coordinate system
   * - ``Reference``
     - The reference allele
   * - ``Variant``
     - The alt allele
   * - ``Transcript``
     - The Ensembl ID of the affected transcript
   * - ``Peptide``
     - The peptide sequence submitted to BLAST
   * - ``Hit ID``
     - The BLAST alignment hit ID (reference proteome sequence ID)
   * - ``Hit Definition``
     - The BLAST alignment hit definition (reference proteome sequence name)
   * - ``Query Sequence``
     - The BLAST query sequence
   * - ``Match Sequence``
     - The BLAST match sequence
   * - ``Match Start``

>      -  The match start position in the matched reference proteome sequence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The match start position in the matched reference proteome sequence
```

   * - ``Match Stop``
     - The match stop position in the matched reference proteome sequence

.. _aggregated:

all_epitopes.aggregated.tsv Report Columns
--------------------------------------------

The ``all_epitopes.aggregated.tsv`` file is an aggregated version of the all_epitopes TSV.
It presents the best-scoring (lowest binding affinity)
epitope for each variant, and outputs additional binding affinity, expression, and
coverage information for that epitope. It also gives information about the
total number of well-scoring epitopes for each variant, the number of
transcripts covered by those epitopes, as well as the HLA alleles that those
epitopes are well-binding to. Lastly, the report will bin variants into tiers
that offer suggestions as to the suitability of variants for use in vaccines.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Column Name
     - Description
   * - ``HLA Alleles`` (multiple) (T/F)

>      - For each HLA allele in the run, did the mutation result in an epitope that binded well

Author: ```suggestion
     - For each HLA allele in the run, did the mutation result in an epitope that bound well
```

>        to the HLA allele (median mutant binding affinity < 1000).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       to the HLA allele (median mutant binding affinity < 1000).
```
```suggestion
       to the HLA allele? (with median mutant binding affinity < 1000).
```

   * - ``Gene``
     - The Ensembl gene name of the affected gene
   * - ``AA_change``
     - The amino acid change for the mutation
   * - ``Num_Transcript``

>      - The Number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least

Author: ```suggestion
     - The number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least
```

>      - The Number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least

Reviewer 3: The Number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least... -> The number of transcripts for this mutation that resulted in at least...

       one well-binding peptide (median mutant binding affinity < 1000).
   * - ``Peptide``
     - The best-binding mutant epitope sequence (lowest median mutant binding
       affinity)
   * - ``Pos``
     - The one-based position of the start of the mutation within the epitope sequence. ``0`` if the

>        start of the mutation is before the epitope

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       start of the mutation is before the epitope (as can occur downstream of frameshift mutations)
```

   * - ``Num_Peptides``
     - The number of unique well-binding peptides for this mutation.
   * - ``ic50_MT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used
   * - ``ic50_WT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.
   * - ``percentile_MT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the best-binding mutant epitope across all prediction algorithms used
   * - ``percentile_WT``
     - Median ic50 binding affinity percentile rank of the corresponding wildtype epitope across all prediction algorithms used.
   * - ``RNA_expr``
     - Gene expression value for the annotated gene containing the variant.
   * - ``RNA_VAF``
     - Tumor RNA variant allele frequency (VAF) at this position.
   * - ``RNA_Depth``
     - Tumor RNA depth at this position.
   * - ``DNA_VAF``
     - Tumor DNA variant allele frequency (VAF) at this position.
   * - ``tier``

>      - A tier corresponding to the suitability of variants for use in vaccines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - A tier suggesting the suitability of variants for use in vaccines.
```

The pVACseq Aggregate Report Tiers
__________________________________

To bin a variant in a tier, the best binding epitope is evaluated as follows:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

>    * - Tier

Reviewer 2: Suggest we replace this list with this table:
```
| Tier | Description |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| NoExpr | Mutant allele is not expressed 
| LowExpr |  Mutant allele has low expression `(TPM * RNA_VAF < 1)` |
| Subclonal | Likely not in the founding clone of the tumor `(DNA_VAF > max(DNA_VAF)/2)` |
| Anchor | Mutation is at an anchor residue in the shown peptide, and the WT allele has good binding `(WT ic50 <1000)`|
| Poor | Fails two or more of the above criteria |
| Relaxed | Passes the above criteria, has decent MT binding `(ic50 < 1000)` |
| Pass | Passes the above criteria, has strong MT binding `(ic50 < 1000)` and strong expression `(TPM * RNA_VAF > 3)` |
```

     - Citeria
   * - ``Pass``
     - Median MT Score < 500 and (Tumor RNA VAF * Gene Expression) > 3 and

>        Tumor DNA VAF > (clonal VAF / 2) and not an anchor residue

Reviewer 3: Rather to directly say "not an anchor residue" might be more clear to say "mutation position is not at an anchor residue"

   * - ``Relaxed``
     - Median MT Score < 1000 and (Tumor RNA VAF * Gene Expression) > 1 and
       Tumor DNA VAF > (clonal VAF / 2) and not an anchor residue
   * - ``Anchor``
     - Median MT Score < 1000 and (Tumor RNA VAF * Gene Expression) > 1 and
       Tumor DNA VAF > (clonal VAF / 2) and an anchor residue
   * - ``Subclonal``
     - Median MT Score < 1000 and (Tumor RNA VAF * Gene Expression) > 1 and
       Tumor DNA VAF < (clonal VAF / 2) and not an anchor residue
   * - ``LowExpr``

>      - Median MT Score < 1000 and low expression and

Reviewer 3: Low gene expression, low transcript expression, both? Is there a cutoff?

       Tumor DNA VAF > (clonal VAF / 2) and not an anchor residue
   * - ``NoExpr``

>      - Gene Expression == 0 and Tumor DNA VAF == 0 and expression is not low

Reviewer 3: A little confused on what "expression is not low" means (particularly with gene expression = 0)?

   * - ``Poor``
     - Variant did not match any of the above criteria

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 0

   * - anchor residue
     - Anchor residue positions are definied as the first, second, second-to-last, and
       last position in the epitope. The mutation in an epitope is an anchor residue if the mutation position is at one

>        of those positions and the median wildtype binding affinity is < 1000.

Reviewer 3: Are we saying here that the definition of anchor residue in the tiers = 1) mutation at anchor residue + 2) median WT binding affinity is < 1000? If so, could we give it a different name to make it clearer? maybe something like "Anchor affected"?

   * - low expression
     - (Tumor RNA VAF * Gene Expression) > 0 or (Gene Expression == 0 and Tumor

>        RNA Depth < 50 and Tumor RNA VAF > .10)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       RNA Depth > 50 and Tumor RNA VAF > .10)
```
